So, the place where I spend more time...
horas efectivas
effective hours would be my workplace,
in my studio.
Here I start in the mornings at work
and even if I have freedom
to distribute my schedule,
and even if we all eat lunch together
and I have to cook before that,
at the end of the day
I spend a lot of hours here, in my office.
This is quite new,
because it wasn’t part of the house before.
It’s a room that was done
much later after we started living here...
many years later.
And it wasn’t used at all,
it was an open terrace,
next to the bedroom, the master bedroom.
And we decided to make the most out of it
and be able to use it
in a way that doesn't give us extra work,
because being open
it was just getting dirty,
lots of dust and leaves when it was windy.
So we decided to close it and make it part of the bedroom.
Close it and create a new ambient.
It is what we achieved and I’m very comfortable here
to be honest.
But it still is my workplace,
so here you live a bit of everything, good moments,
some with a lot of tension and nerves,
a bit of everything.
But it’s also true that
it’s a very comfortable space,
and sometimes I like to be here just reading for a while
not having to be working on the computer.
It’s nice, it’s a nice room.
I also have it close to my bedroom
so it feels like it’s my own space. I feel
at peace.
I have always liked this area, always.
When I was little, my brother in law had here a huge piece of land
and we would spend part of our summer
here in La Cañada,
the neighbourhood where we live now.
And I have always felt attracted to it,
as if it was pulling me.
Then, my father got sick unfortunately,
and we thought that here
we would be giving him a better quality of life
than in a flat in the city.
We are here living...23 years.
My children came here when they were little,
very little, the youngest one was a baby.
And it has almost formed itself,
we have all contributed to
the making of this home together.
However, there have been times when,
tired of such a big house
in terms of meters,
I have thought of moving to a different place.
But I have wonderful memories here,
really moving ones that I think
won’t make it even possible
to think about moving ever again.
The space I like the least in this house would be...
the basement.
We had it before as a garage.
For a while we parked the car inside, because
it has direct access to the kitchen
and that’s convenient.
But that didn’t compensate for the floods we had here.
We set here a ping pong table,
where they have spent hours playing.
I didn’t, I’m really bad at it,
but they have played for hours,
a really long time,
and enjoyed and had so much fun.
Now it is closed as you can see behind me,
there’s a window.
This was the garage door, behind me
was the entrance to the garage, with a steep slope.
So when it rained
it was flooding all the basement.
It was affecting everywhere,
I have another area on my right,
two more rooms that also belong to the basement,
and everything was flooded.
Then obviously, we couldn’t have here any furniture
because everything was getting swollen...we had to change the doors.
Until we decided to change this.
I think it’s underdeveloped.
We use it as storage.
It has a lot of potential,
we could join all the space that we have,
the other two rooms and this one
and even make a new dwelling,
for one of my children if they wanted or
were interested at some point.
I’m not sure, my son who is an architect
and my daughter-in-law who is an architect as well,
they should be the ones who take care of it.
I’m just bothered with it being used as storage.
It still is a relief for the rest of the house,
but well, it’s not what I would like it to be.
My favourite space, and the one that I enjoy the most,
is the living room.
Was I resting or reading...
it’s where I feel most at ease.
Except in summer obviously,
when I prefer other areas.
The living room is my favourite space.
This house gives me serenity, peace...
it’s very quiet, the only things that one can hear
are my dog barking and the birds singing,
it’s very nice.
Memories… my family.
All the memories are my family.
I feel very attached to the lamp
in the dining room,
which is part of this same room,
it’s all one same space, one piece.
The lamp,
it took a long time to choose it, I think
we made the right choice and it’s a good lamp.
The Lladró figurines behind me
also have sentimental value,
not so much for me
but for my husband
since they are gifts from patients.
Almost all of them,
except two little ones that are not so important
but also of great sentimental value
because they are from the tombolas
we used to organize in the school of my children.
And well, I was lucky that I won them.
There are also paintings
that patients gave my husband as presents,
that are very valuable because they were made
with great care and appreciation.
This is what I can highlight.
So, we spend more time in the kitchen
not because we’re here often, together.
Rather because otherwise,
each of us is in their own space,
in their workplace.
Then, we are just in the kitchen...
when we come home
and come directly here.
As we come home, we meet in the kitchen.
We come to the kitchen and eat in the kitchen.
I personally spend more time in the kitchen
because I am cooking.
And Álvaro often keeps me company,
sometimes while I cook or helps me
in the kitchen.
Then, if we are not in the kitchen we are not together,
each one of us is in their own space.
Let’s hear what the others think.
You don’t fancy preparing it,
I mean, cooking it,
but you do eating it.
Okay.
Okay, okay, the cooking part,
the cooking part...
Okay, okay.
Yes, indeed,
as I said earlier here as we are done eating,
each one leaves to their place.
Sometimes the living room as Alvaro mentioned,
others to the office,
sometimes we stay in the kitchen.
But it is true that it is the meeting center,
it’s where we spend the most time with the three of us together.
Otherwise it’s very difficult to be together,
if it’s not in the kitchen we are rarely together.
Yes I haven’t said otherwise.
Well, there’s a member of this household missing
and who is always close to the kitchen
with us,
Bimba, our doggie.
Normally we have the door open,
and she lays next to the door
and watches us, stays with us,
so the meeting is for everybody,
also for Bimba.
Yes, we have many options.
So we have options, yes.
How long are you living here?
We have been living here 22 years and a half.